README.md, before:

# Ali_Tracks
A web based app to track savings goals
<h1 align="center">Flask App with MongoDB on Heroku</h1>

[View the live project here.](https://ali-tracks-55fe74203334.herokuapp.com/)

This is a Flask-based web application that interacts with a MongoDB database. It includes routes for updating and retrieving totals, and it's designed to demonstrate CRUD operations. The application is deployed on Heroku, making it accessible from anywhere.

<h2 align="center">Insert Image</h2>

## Table of Contents

1. [User Experience](#user-experience-ux)
   - [User Stories](#user-stories)
   - [Design](#design)

2. [The Final Design](#the-final-design)
   - [Main](#main-page)

3. [Features](#features)
   - [Page Content](#page-content)

4. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
   - [Languages Used](#languages-used)
   - [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries--programs-used)

5. [Testing](#testing)
   - [Validation](#validation)
   - [Performance](#performance)
   - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
   - [Further Testing](#further-testing)
   - [Further Improvements](#further-improvements)
   - [Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section](#testing-user-stories-from-user-experience-ux-section)
       - [First Time Visitor Goals](#first-time-visitor-goals-1)
       - [Returning Visitor Goals](#returning-visitor-goals-1)
       - [Frequent Visitor Goals](#frequent-user-goals-1)
   - [Known Bugs](#known-bugs)

6. [Deployment](#deployment)
   - [Heroku](#heroku)
   - [Forking The GitHub Repository](#forking-the-github-repository)
   - [Making a Local Clone](#making-a-local-clone)

7. [Credits](#credits)
   - [Code](#code)
   - [Content](#content)
   - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## User Experience (UX)

### User Stories

- #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the application.
    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to know how to interact with the application.

- #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to quickly access the main functionalities.

- #### Frequent User Goals
    1. As a Frequent User, I want to efficiently update and retrieve data without hassle.
    2. As a frequent user, I expect the application to remember my progress.

### Design
- #### Colour Scheme
    - The application uses a professional and clean color scheme to ensure a user-friendly interface.
- #### Typography
    - The application uses a modern and readable font, ensuring good readability across different devices with redundancy fonts.

## The Final Design

### Main Page
- <h2 align="centre"><img src="/static/assets/images/main_capture.PNG"></h2>

## Features

- Responsive on all device sizes
- Interactive elements for data retrieval and updates

### Page Content

- The main page provides clear instructions on how to interact with the application.
- Users can easily navigate through different functionalities.

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/)
    - Flask was used as the web framework.
1. [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
    - MongoDB was used as the database to store and retrieve data.
1. [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)
    - Heroku was used to deploy the application.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control.
1. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the project's code.
1. [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
    - Postman was used for testing API endpoints.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator, W3C CSS Validator, and other validation tools were used to ensure the code is error-free.

### Validation

- [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
- [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
- [JSHint](https://jshint.com/)
- [PEP8](http://pep8online.com/)

### Performance

- [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse)

### Manual Testing

- Each route and functionality has been manually tested for correctness.

### Further Testing

- The application was tested on multiple browsers and devices to ensure compatibility. Browsers tested include Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Firefox.

### Further Improvements

- Enhance the user interface with more dynamic elements.
- Add in additional pages with different format saving challenges.
- Implement user logins and profiles for multiple users to track their savings challenges.
- Implement additional features for better user experience.

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

- #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the application.
        - Clear instructions are provided on the main page.
    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to know how to interact with the application.
        - The user interface is intuitive and guides the user through the functionalities.

- #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to quickly access the main functionalities.
        - The main functionalities are easily accessible from the main page.

- #### Frequent User Goals

    1. As a Frequent User, I want to efficiently update and retrieve data without hassle.
        - The application is designed for efficient data management.

### Known Bugs

- There might be occasional connectivity issues with the database, which are being monitored and addressed.

## Deployment

### Heroku

The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps:

1. Create a new Heroku app:
    - `heroku create`
2. Push the repository to Heroku:
    - `git push heroku master`
3. Set up the necessary environment variables on Heroku for the MongoDB connection.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository, you can make a copy of the original repository to view and make changes without affecting the original repository.

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](#)
2. Click on the "Fork" button.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](#)
2. Click "Clone or download" and copy the URL.
3. Open Git Bash.
4. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.
5. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/your-username/repository-name

## Credits

### Code

-   [Beautiful CSS buttons examples](https://getcssscan.com/css-buttons-examples): The button styling was used on every button of the page. Button 62 was used in this page.

### Content

-   All content was written by the developer.

### Media

-   

### Acknowledgements

-   My Mentor for continuous helpful feedback.
-   My tutor for his support and guidance throughout the project.
-   My step children and wife for playing the game trying to break it with high scores and using their phones to test it on smaller devices.
-   My friend Simon Nightingale who helped me test the project on various platforms and browsers.
-   Tutor support at Code Institute for their support.

Commit message:

Readme and PEP8
Added testing data from lighthouse and code validation. Ensured app.py file follows PEP8.

README.md, after:

# Ali_Tracks
A web based app to track savings goals
<h1 align="center">Flask App with MongoDB on Heroku</h1>

[View the live project here.](https://ali-tracks-55fe74203334.herokuapp.com/)

This is a Flask-based web application that interacts with a MongoDB database. It includes routes for updating and retrieving totals, and it's designed to demonstrate CRUD operations. The application is deployed on Heroku, making it accessible from anywhere.

<h2 align="center">Insert Image</h2>

## Table of Contents

1. [User Experience](#user-experience-ux)
   - [User Stories](#user-stories)
   - [Design](#design)

2. [The Final Design](#the-final-design)
   - [Main](#main-page)

3. [Features](#features)
   - [Page Content](#page-content)

4. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
   - [Languages Used](#languages-used)
   - [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries--programs-used)

5. [Testing](#testing)
   - [Validation](#validation)
   - [Performance](#performance)
   - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
   - [Further Testing](#further-testing)
   - [Further Improvements](#further-improvements)
   - [Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section](#testing-user-stories-from-user-experience-ux-section)
       - [First Time Visitor Goals](#first-time-visitor-goals-1)
       - [Returning Visitor Goals](#returning-visitor-goals-1)
       - [Frequent Visitor Goals](#frequent-user-goals-1)
   - [Known Bugs](#known-bugs)

6. [Deployment](#deployment)
   - [Heroku](#heroku)
   - [Forking The GitHub Repository](#forking-the-github-repository)
   - [Making a Local Clone](#making-a-local-clone)

7. [Credits](#credits)
   - [Code](#code)
   - [Content](#content)
   - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## User Experience (UX)

### User Stories

- #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the application.
    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to know how to interact with the application.

- #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to quickly access the main functionalities.

- #### Frequent User Goals
    1. As a Frequent User, I want to efficiently update and retrieve data without hassle.
    2. As a frequent user, I expect the application to remember my progress.

### Design
- #### Colour Scheme
    - The application uses a professional and clean color scheme to ensure a user-friendly interface.
- #### Typography
    - The application uses a modern and readable font, ensuring good readability across different devices with redundancy fonts.

## The Final Design

### Main Page
- <h2 align="centre"><img src="/static/assets/images/main_capture.PNG"></h2>

## Features

- Responsive on all device sizes
- Interactive elements for data retrieval and updates

### Page Content

- The main page provides clear instructions on how to interact with the application.
- Users can easily navigate through different functionalities.

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/)
    - Flask was used as the web framework.
1. [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
    - MongoDB was used as the database to store and retrieve data.
1. [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)
    - Heroku was used to deploy the application.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control.
1. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the project's code.
1. [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
    - Postman was used for testing API endpoints.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator, W3C CSS Validator, and other validation tools were used to ensure the code is error-free.

### Validation

- [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
- [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
- [JSHint](https://jshint.com/)
- [PEP8](https://www.pythonchecker.com/)

-   Using the above mentioned validators the following error logs have been recorded and actioned upon.

    -   index.html error log
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_html_1.PNG">
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_html_2.PNG">
        -   The error from the HTML code validator regarding this line: link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ url_for('static', filename='assets/style.css') }}"
            is expected because the validator does not understand Jinja2 templating syntax used by Flask. This is not a problem in the actual application, as Flask will correctly render the template before serving it to the client. Therefore, this warning from the HTML validator can safely be ignored.

    -   style.css error log
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_css_1.PNG">

    -   script.js error log
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_js_1.PNG">

    -   app.py error log
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_python_1.PNG">
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_python_2.PNG">
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_python_3.PNG">
        -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_python_4.PNG">


### Performance

- [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse)
    -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_lighthouse_1.PNG">
    -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_lighthouse_2.PNG">
    -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_lighthouse_3.PNG">
    -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_lighthouse_4.PNG">
    -   <img src="./static/assets/images/mp3_lighthouse_5.PNG">

### Manual Testing

- Each route and functionality has been manually tested for correctness.

### Further Testing

- The application was tested on multiple browsers and devices to ensure compatibility. Browsers tested include Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Firefox.

### Further Improvements

- Enhance the user interface with more dynamic elements.
- Add in additional pages with different format saving challenges.
- Implement user logins and profiles for multiple users to track their savings challenges.
- Implement additional features for better user experience.

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

- #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the application.
        - Clear instructions are provided on the main page.
    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to know how to interact with the application.
        - The user interface is intuitive and guides the user through the functionalities.

- #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to quickly access the main functionalities.
        - The main functionalities are easily accessible from the main page.

- #### Frequent User Goals

    1. As a Frequent User, I want to efficiently update and retrieve data without hassle.
        - The application is designed for efficient data management.

### Known Bugs

- There might be occasional connectivity issues with the database, which are being monitored and addressed.

## Deployment

### Heroku

The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps:

1. Create a new Heroku app:
    - `heroku create`
2. Push the repository to Heroku:
    - `git push heroku master`
3. Set up the necessary environment variables on Heroku for the MongoDB connection.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository, you can make a copy of the original repository to view and make changes without affecting the original repository.

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](#)
2. Click on the "Fork" button.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](#)
2. Click "Clone or download" and copy the URL.
3. Open Git Bash.
4. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.
5. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/your-username/repository-name

## Credits

### Code

-   [Beautiful CSS buttons examples](https://getcssscan.com/css-buttons-examples): The button styling was used on every button of the page. Button 62 was used in this page.

### Content

-   All content was written by the developer.

### Media

-   

### Acknowledgements

-   My Mentor for continuous helpful feedback.
-   My tutor for his support and guidance throughout the project.
-   My step children and wife for playing the game trying to break it with high scores and using their phones to test it on smaller devices.
-   My friend Simon Nightingale who helped me test the project on various platforms and browsers.
-   Tutor support at Code Institute for their support.
